---
title: For the love of Running
layout: post
---

-WIP-

The people that know me well probably sigh every time I bring up the health and mental benefits of running, for that reason I'd like to make a one final post to end all discussion ;) (Also a good excuse to get started with this whole blogging thing :D) 

## It's like cheating at life!

For the price of 30 minutes out of your morning routine you can start the day incredibly focused. Personally, coffee only gets me less sleepy but doesn't help very much with clarity of thought. A quick 5km run really does wonders. I often have trouble concentrating for long stretches of time but the days I do run in the morning my productivity skyrockets and I can for the most part stay concentrated during the day

Besides being just good for me, there is also loads of [research](https://www.health.harvard.edu/blog/running-health-even-little-bit-good-little-probably-better-201407307310) stating that it makes people happier and it wards off mental decline during old age. Although I can't attest to the mental decline bit as a 22 year-old (yet) I definitely noticed that after picking up running I started having many more happy, productive and satisfying days!

Running is also a great alternative to meditation I have found. Running long distances forces your mind to think of only a few things at a time and keeps your mind from racing from topic to topic like crazy. While meditating the mantra is often to only focus on your breathing, with running you can do the same but focus on staying in the rhythm of your pace. Once you get into this rhythm it feels liek you could run forever, which feels pretty darn amazing! :blush:

Oh and it's also a great way to stay in shape and get that sexy bod! Although I honestly don't think this is the main benefit.

## The people
Besides being just great for your own body and mind, I have also met some very interesting people through the sport. Because it is an endurance sport I have found the people that tend to be attracted to running to be quite passionate people outside the sport as well. Running is as much a mental as a physical sport since you constantly have to push your body and your mind to just keep going. I don't know where the causality lies, but the people that excel at this kind of mental toughness tend to also be very good in other parts of their life such as consistently honing their craft or building their their personal relationships. 

## How to get started?

I would say the best way to get started is to join a running club. If there is a couch to 5k program available you can start with that to get up to a reasonable level. After that, London has a lovely set of Parkruns that are a timed 5km run through one of London's many public parks. The organizers are super friendly and there is zero pressure to achieve a fast time, most people just come to have a good run and a chat afterwards. London (and a few other cities) also have a Midnight Runner's chapter which is a quite intense 10km run along the Thames with bootcamp stops at every 2km so that faster and slower runners can regroup and everyone runs together. 

With all the benefits listed above, what's holding you back? Grab that pair of shoes and hit the trails!:D